# Introduction
A variety of factors impact the marking and cut quality of a laser

# Variables

## Laser Wave Length
Lasers beams can be generated by a variety of mechanisms. The type of beam produced and its associated wave length determines the type of material it can interact with.

| Laser Type | Effective Materials | Ineffective Materials |
| -- | -- | --|
| CO2 | Organics (wood, leather, etc.), Hard surfaces (plexiglass, tile) | Uncoated metals, plastics |
| Diode | Organics (wood, leather, etc.), Fragile surfaces (glass) | Uncoated metals, plastics |
| Fiber (Fixed frequency) | Metals, plastics | Organics |
| MOPA (Dynamic frequency | Metals, plastics | Organics |

## Beam Focus
The laser beam is most effective when all energy is focused into a small pin point. A focused lased beam will instantly vaporize material, leaving a mark or cut depending on the duration the beam is applied. An un-focused beam may leave a lighter mark or shallower cut or no mark/cut at alll. 

## Power
The amount of power applied at given point in time determines how much material is removed from the surface. High power exposures have a tendency to char the area surrounding the intended target.

## Speed
The time the laser remains in a given position determines how much energy is absorbed by the material. Machine speeds also impact vibration and jerk responses of the machine, impacting accuracy and repeatability of movements.

## Humidity
The relative humidity of the environment impacts the material's ability to absorb laser energy, especially for organic material. Think trying to start a fire with wet fire woord.

## Atmoshperic Clarity
Smoke particles and dust can interfere with the laser beam's path to the material, reducing the effective amount of energy that reaches the target material

## Equipment Wear
The elements that creat the laser beam wear out with time and may produce less laser outputs with the same electrical inputs. Parts will eventually fail all together with symptoms resembling an electrical short.

## Material
Even wood in the same species can have wildly different properties due to grain density, knot placement, sap content, and coatings. Settings that cut cleanly through one piece may leave a partial cut on a different piece. 

## Mirror Alignment
Laser systems such as CO2 lasers rely on a system of mirrors to steer the beam to its final location. Alignment issues in this mirror system can cause the beam to disperse before it reaches the target material. This can manifest as different cutting performance at different points on the cutting bed.

## Design Complexity
Spacing between details in a design that approach the beam size of the laser will see over burn characteristics. Designs that near the mechanical limits of gantries will see missed details. 
